Now, I wanna try and get us still working
in the same scene with this cube and
gradients and understanding coordinates.
But I wanna start to set a bit
more of an intention for
what we're doing rather than just randomly
changing colors and randomly like playing
around with experimentation of like
coordinates and stuff like that.
I'd like us to try and set a bit
of an intention for exercises for
the rest of the day.
And so one of the things I like to
do is find inspiration from art and
art history and contemporary artists.
This is Yayoi Kusama,
who's most well known for
these kinda installation pieces like
infinity mirror type installation pieces.
Where she's doing these lots of circles,
lots of polka dots,
lots of repeating and sort of seamless
patterns across these meshes.
So here's another one.
And she has this sort of motif of polka
dot that appears in most of her work or
almost all of her work,
a lot of these circles, repeating circles.
And if x is a really good base for
us to start to get inspiration for
our own shaders, because it's something
that looks very simple to do in a shader.
Maybe you're thinking,
this is just circles.
But there's so many ways that we
can approach this in a shader.
That it becomes a really good exercise for
us to just understand some of
the different ways we can do this.
So this is what we're gonna be trying to
create is some outputs that look a little
bit like this.
Here's another variation just by
tweaking parameters in the shader,
we can start to introduce lighting,
can start to tweak these colors and
it's all within the same exercise.
So now instead of going through
lots of different exercises,
we're gonna stick within
this kind of output and
try to see how we can tweak it and
change it in different ways.
I'll just run through
some of these outputs.
And then we'll run through again,
in more detail going through each one.
But just when I'm trying to create
something like this, theoretically,
let's say in a hypothetical situation,
you've been approached to
contract a website for either Kusama or
for her next exhibition.
And part of the website includes this
interactive component, which shows some of
her her work or something like her work
that allows you to rotate around these
spheres, maybe interact with them,
move them around or something like that.
And so you need to figure out how do you
actually render these spheres with these
little polka dots.
Well, you could probably use a shader, and
this is what we're gonna end up using.
And so the first thing you might do is
just start simple, start with a cube and
try to get some circles repeated
on the cube, just like this.
And once you have this,
this is kind of gonna be a groundwork for
doing something a little bit more
like this, which is a bit closer.
So making some noise, we're gonna try and
chat briefly about noise, but
trying to create something
with a bit more of a sphere.
Trying to create something
is a bit closer to her work.
But if you do this approach,
you might start to see errors,
you might start to see flaws.
When you turn this sphere,
all of a sudden you're gonna see it
looks a little bit weird on the poles.
That's because of the way that this
particular approach would be using
the texture mapping and so we have to
come up with a different approach.
So how do we get even
spacing across these points?
Just so that it looks a little bit
more like Yayoi Kusama's work.
And so in order to achieve that,
maybe we'll come up with
an approach that uses something
like a icosahedron geometry.
So this is icosahedron,
it takes triangles and
lays them out in this sort of even way
to create a sphere or a spherical shape.
And notice all the triangles are very
evenly spaced from each other.
And all the vertices that defined those
triangles are all very evenly spaced
as well.
And so we could for example define,
on each vertex, we could define an object.
Here it's just spheres, which doesn't
really look like Yayoi Kusama, but
if we didn't use spheres we used disks or
something like that.
Maybe it looks like this,
and all of a sudden,
we get something that's
a bit like her work.
And so the way that works is we
take the points of the vertices of
this icosahedron.
So that's the white spheres for
each of the vertices.
But instead of rendering an icosahedron,
our actual bubbles or balloons or
whatever, we wanna call those things,
those are very smooth, very detailed.
And so we're just using the icosahedron to
define the points on
the sphere that we wanna draw.
And then we can start by
rendering them as spheres, but
that's not what we want,
this looks like some weird ball.
What we want is to make them look like
they're part of the surface of the mesh.
And so instead of using spheres,
we're gonna do little tiny discs.
So there's a geometry in
three.js called Circle Geometry.
And this is what would be used here.
And then we can go further, maybe once
we have this we can create a shader
version of it, that actually maps
the pattern onto the sphere itself.
Because maybe one of the things
you'll notice with this geometric
version is that the actual geometry
is sticking out of the sphere.
And this is a pretty subtle detail, but
maybe your creative director is gonna
be like, well, we can't have this.
It doesn't look like it's good enough.
And so you can actually go in,
you can create a shader version.
And we'll talk a little bit
about how that would work.
And this would be using some math,
which is actually taking the distances of
these points, in the fragment shader and
computing it.
And so I'll go into detail as we go,
but this is just sort of the breakdown.
And then once you have all those things,
you might start to polish it up,
add more spheres rather than just one.
You might start to add
some lighting into it.
And you might finally start to
add little other details or
flourishes or something like that.
So that would be sorta the remainder
of what we wanna sorta strive toward.
But we're gonna keep it simple,
we're gonna do it piece by piece.
And we might not get all the way to the
very end, but the demos are there if you
do wanna continue onwards to the more and
more advanced work.
And I'll try and break down,
at least explain some of the more
advanced approaches as we go.